# System-Analysis-and-Design

# Project Management Report

# Project Management and Scheduling
The main purpose of the project is to implement a platform  for the Federal Communication Commission that will support the development and implementation of a series of surveys for college students, researching student video viewing preferences. Our team will be implementing three different surveys that evaluate content preferences, time of day preferences and the price they are willing to pay for it. For this project we are using the SDLC development model as a framework to define our tasks. We are dividing the tasks into 5 Phases and each phase has Tasks divided into different Activity when applicable. The project will take approximately 4months for finishing and implementing the project.
# Scheduling:
 We have allocated certain amount of time for each phase. The first phase Project Planning and Evaluation is estimated to be completed in 13 days. The tasks involved in this phase are initial meeting with the client to know about the purpose of project, developing questionnaire for interview, interviewing the users to know their needs and preferences for the proposed project, write system requirement documents and get user acceptance and final confirmation of the project. After this phase is completed, we move to the next phase Project Analysis and Scheduling. This phase is estimated to be completed in 4 weeks. In this phase we conduct the feasibility study to determine whether the proposed project is to be finished within the allocated time and budget. The team is also assigned in this phase such as software engineer, data analyst, programmer, IT support group and so on. We also determine the hardware, software and network requirement. This phase consists of series of meetings between project manager, engineers and stakeholders. After everything is determined we move to the next step Project Design, Development, Testing and Monitoring. This phase takes the longest time as it is the phase when the main development process takes place. This phase takes 4-5 weeks. This phase is divided into 3 activities: system design (5 days), system development (3 weeks) and system install and test (4 days). After a new system is completed and tested, the Quality Assurance signs off the project and transfer it to production and the new project is launched in client’s work environment. These activities fall under Project Implementation  which takes 1-2 days as everything is ready to take-off. The last phase is Project Reporting and Support. This usually takes place in 2-3 weeks after launching the project in client’s work environment. In this phase, the client and developer meet and talk about if the new project meets their requirement and is working properly. The required update and maintenance take place in this phase and the company is responsible for providing support and security to the project until the date of contract that is set for 2 years in this project.
# Critical Paths:
Critical paths are the tasks which are very important tasks in the project, and we cannot move to another task without completing the critical task. In this project, each task is equally important as the tasks are to be done in sequence one after another, so it is difficult to set critical tasks. However, I have setup various tasks under critical tasks as it is one of the important steps. FCC is our client. These are very important tasks in this project. Without knowing the user’s need and preference for the new system, we can not move forward and plan other activities and tasks in the proposed project. And without completing these tasks, we won’t be able to develop questionnaire and interview the users and write the system requirement documents for the purposed surveys and systems.
Another critical task is to get user acceptance for the System requirement document. Without the client’s approval in our planning in starting the project, we cannot start it.
Determining the team is also another critical task. As being a project manager, it is my responsibility to  make ready a team who will be able work and finish this project. The hiring process should be done within the certain time-period and determine the team. Without a team of system analyst, engineers, programmers, IT supports, this project cannot be initiated and the delay in this task will delay the whole development process.
The  tasks under system design and development activity are also critical and most important because it is the phase in which the main development takes place. The system analyst, software engineers, programmers work together in designing the flowchart, processing it and writing the program. This is a very critical activity because if this task is not completed, the remaining tasks cannot take place. 
If everything is done within a proposed time and according to the plan, the project will start at 3/3/2020 and launch at 6/14/2020. The technical support and security to the project will be provided as per mentioned in the contract. For instance, here I  have included for 2 years after the  new system is launched.

# Note: we can also view the critical tasks in CPM network in the given Open Workbench project. The critical tasks are highlighted in light blue color.
# The detailed dependencies (Predecessor and Successor tasks) can be viewed under Dependency Definition tab which is under planning tab on the left.
